[elasticapmintakereceiver] Extend docs (#693)
elastic/opentelemetry-collector-components: receiver/elasticapmintakereceiver/README.md

Receives data via HTTP using [APM IntakeV2 format](https://www.elastic.co/docs/solutions/observability/apm/elastic-apm-events-intake-api).

The main purpose of this receiver is to enable classic Elastic APM Agents to send data to an OTel collector. This way users can gradually switch to OTel without needing to potentially replace lots of APM Agents which may be also used with some manually instrumented code.

> The receiver currently supports the intake v2 protocol. RUM intake, and older intake protocols are not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The receiver currently supports the Intake v2 protocol. RUM intake, and older intake protocols, are not supported.
```

I guess it's capitalized. Any link protocol docs or specs?

Author: Good point - I linked the specs.

> The receiver currently supports the [Intake v2 protocol](https://github.com/elastic/apm-server/tree/main/docs/spec/v2). RUM intake, and older intake protocols, are not supported.

Reviewer 2: Ques - Intakev2 from APM Server supports RUM by default. Are we saying this is intakev2 without the RUM fields mapped?

ELASTIC_APM_SERVER_URL=https://localhost:8200
ELASTIC_APM_SERVER_CERT=server.crt
```

### Architecture

![Elasticapmintakereceiver Architecture](./elasticapmintakereceiver_architecture.png )

> In order to have the full APM experience including the curated APM UI in Kibana, the `elasticapmintake` receiver is intended to be used with some other Elastic specific components. The `elasticapmintake` takes care of receiving the ndjoson data sent by Elastic APM Agents and turning that into OTel native data, like `ptrace.Span`, `plog.LogRecord`, `pmetric.*`, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To have the full APM experience, including the curated APM UI in Kibana, the `elasticapmintake` receiver is intended to be used with some other Elastic specific components. The `elasticapmintake` takes care of receiving the NDJSON data sent by Elastic APM Agents and turning that into OTel native data, like `ptrace.Span`, `plog.LogRecord`, `pmetric.*`, and so on.
```

> So the output of this component is the OTel native translation of the Elastic APM data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output of this component is the OTel native translation of the Elastic APM data.
```

> Since there is no clear 1:1 mapping between the OTel and the Elastic APM data model, there are 3 categories of fields that end up on the output OTel data. The general idea is that everything that can be mapped to OTel, must be mapped into the OTel field defined by the OTel specs:
> - All fields that are defined as top level fields in OTel are populated according to the OTel spec. Some examples: `ParentSpanID`, `TraceID`, `StartTimestamp`, `EndTimestamp`
> - All Elastic APM Fields that can be mapped into a SemConv field, are mapped into SemConv fields. This hold true for both resource attributes and event specific attributes. Examples: The [`service.name` field from the metadata](https://github.com/elastic/apm-server/blob/main/docs/spec/v2/metadata.json#L132) is stored on each event in the `service.name` SemConv attribute, the [`node.name` field from the metadata](https://github.com/elastic/apm-server/blob/main/docs/spec/v2/metadata.json#L335) is stored on each event in the `service.instance.id`, the `db.type` field from the Elastic APM span is stored in the `db.system` SemConv attribute.
> - All fields that are required by Elastic APM (including Kibana), but are not part of any OTel spec are stored in a custom attribute, by using the Elastic APM field name as the key. Examples: the `transaction.name` of an Elastic APM transaction, which does not have an OTel equivalent, is stored in the `transaction.name` attribute. The `http.request.body` from the incoming Elastic APM data is stored in the `http.request.body` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because there is no clear 1:1 mapping between the OTel and the Elastic APM data model, there are three types of fields that go in the output OTel data. Everything that can be mapped to OTel, must be mapped into the OTel field defined by the OTel specs:

- All fields that are defined as top level fields in OTel are populated according to the OTel spec. Examples are `ParentSpanID`, `TraceID`, `StartTimestamp`, `EndTimestamp`.
- All Elastic APM Fields that can be mapped into a SemConv field, are mapped into SemConv fields. This hold true for both resource attributes and event specific attributes. For example, the [`service.name` field from the metadata](https://github.com/elastic/apm-server/blob/main/docs/spec/v2/metadata.json#L132) is stored on each event in the `service.name` SemConv attribute, while the [`node.name` field from the metadata](https://github.com/elastic/apm-server/blob/main/docs/spec/v2/metadata.json#L335) is stored on each event in the `service.instance.id`, and the `db.type` field from the Elastic APM span is stored in the `db.system` SemConv attribute.

- All fields required by Elastic APM, including Kibana, but are not part of any OTel spec, are stored in a custom attribute, using the Elastic APM field name as the key. Examples: the `transaction.name` of an Elastic APM transaction, which does not have an OTel equivalent, is stored in the `transaction.name` attribute. The `http.request.body` from the incoming Elastic APM data is stored in the `http.request.body` attribute.
```

> The next component needed is the `elasticapm` processor which takes care of enriching the data with some fields which is required by Kibana to visualize the data on the APM UI. This processor essentially adds fields that are not part of OTel, but are required by Kibana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next component needed is the `elasticapm` processor, which takes care of enriching the data with some fields which is required by Kibana to visualize the data on the APM UI. This processor adds fields that are not part of OTel, but are required by Kibana.
```

And then finally the `elasticsearch` exporter stores the data in Elasticsearch.

> Currently the whole pipeline will automatically store data in classic APM data streams. This is different from a fully OTel native pipeline with the OTLP receiver (as opposed to the `elasticapmintake` receiver), which by default stores data in [the OTel native data streams](https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry-dev/blob/main/docs/design-decisions/ingest/routing.md). We still have the option to extend the components described above and add a config to potentially store data from classic Elastic APM Agents in OTel native data streams in a later iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the whole pipeline will automatically store data in classic APM data streams. This is different from a fully OTel native pipeline with the OTLP receiver (as opposed to the `elasticapmintake` receiver), which by default stores data in [the OTel native data streams](https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry-dev/blob/main/docs/design-decisions/ingest/routing.md). We still have the option to extend the components described above and add a config to potentially store data from classic Elastic APM Agents in OTel native data streams in a later iteration.
```

- All fields required by Elastic APM, including Kibana, but are not part of any OTel spec, are stored in a custom attribute, using the Elastic APM field name as the key. Examples: the `transaction.name` of an Elastic APM transaction, which does not have an OTel equivalent, is stored in the `transaction.name` attribute. The `http.request.body` from the incoming Elastic APM data is stored in the `http.request.body` attribute.

The next component needed is the `elasticapm` processor, which takes care of enriching the data with some fields which is required by Kibana to visualize the data on the APM UI. This processor adds fields that are not part of OTel, but are required by Kibana.

> And then finally the `elasticsearch` exporter stores the data in Elasticsearch.

Reviewer 2: Can we call out what is the mode used here, Is it ecs or otel?
